Okay.
So now that we have a better grasp on what we're building, I want to open up the state's file and remind
you that there are three properties that are keeping track of the users filter selections.
We have selected organizations for the organizations, selected job types for the job types strings
and selected degrees for the degree strings.
And of course, when the user clicks the clear filters button, what I ultimately want to happen is
I want to clear all three of these arrays, and then I also want to remove all of the checkboxes that
are on the screen.
So let's begin on the view side of things.
We want to modify a piece of state in our view store.
And of course, in order to do that, we're going to need to write a new mutation.
We're going to need to add a mutation whose responsibility it will be to clear these three arrays.
So I'm going to open up my mutations test file.
There it is.
And you can see all of our current mutations mostly receive some new state and override a property.
But there's nothing stopping us from clearing our property as well, or setting it back to its original
state, or even having a mutation that affects multiple properties.
That's going to be a new thing we cover here.
All of our other mutations affect only one property on our state.
But that's not a requirement, right?
Because a mutation is simply a method that updates the state and a mutation can certainly update more
than one property.
So with that said, I'm going to open up my test file and we're going to write a test for this.
So right here.
We have our describe block for mutations.
This is in our mutations that test that's false and I'm going to scroll all the way down and create
a new described block for my new mutation.
We're going to follow a test driven development approach, and let's call this one clear user job filter
selections.
All right, so right here, I'm going to provide my arrow function, and in here I'll provide my function
for it.
It removes all job filters that user has chosen.
And if you can think of a better description, feel free.
Nothing wrong with that.
I'm just trying my best to describe the user value of this mutation.
So of course we're going to need to have a starting state.
So going to follow the exact same paradigm I've followed with all the tests above.
I'm going to create a concept called Starting State.
We're going to use our create state helper function.
Remember that what that function does is it utilizes our original state function to create a starting
point for a valid U.S. store state following the global state interface.
But we can also provide whatever properties we want here to customize at the starting state.
So in this case, I want to show to a future reader that my three arrays, selected organizations,
selected job types and selected degrees are not starting on empty.
Then I'm going to run the mutation and confirm that they are indeed empty after the mutation completes.
So what I'm going to do here is do selected organizations, and I'm going to start that off with an
array.
It doesn't matter what that array has, as long as it has at least one string.
So maybe here I'll put something like random organization.
Then I'll add another property here.
Selected job types.
And these are all valid properties on my state, so that's totally fine.
This will also be an array.
And right here I'll say something like random job type.
It can be whatever string you want as long as we have a non empty array.
And finally we're going to have selected degrees and that's going to be an array as well.
And let's populate this with something like random degree.
All right.
So now I have a state that is a little bit different compared to having empty arrays.
I now have three populated arrays.
So you can almost imagine this being like the user has selected one checkbox in each of our three checkbox
groups for an organization, a job type and a degree.
Then I want to run my new mutation.
So right here I have my mutations object imported and I'm going to assume that I have my mutation available
and it's going to be called the clear user.
Job filter selections and all mutation methods, of course, accept the current store state as the first
argument.
So I'm going to pass in starting state.
And after that mutation runs, what do I expect?
I expect that those three properties should be empty arrays.
So right here I'm going to write three assertions.
Expect that state that selected organizations.
After the mutation runs, this should equal an empty array and remember ingest.
Whenever you are comparing array equality you want to use the to equal matcher, not that to be matcher,
so to equal an empty right.
I also expect and sorry, this is not going to be state.
This is going to be starting state.
There we go.
And I also am going to expect starting state.
Dot selected job types.
I want that property to also equal an empty array.
And finally I expect starting state.
Dot selected degrees.
That's the third and final array.
I want that to also be emptied out.
So in one test, I'm going to validate that the mutation is going to clear all of these arrays, clear
all of the user's selections, which is exactly what the purpose of that Clear Filters button is going
to be as far as it comes to the View Store State.
I'm going to save that.
Of course we're going to fail because we do not have that named mutation method in our file.
Let's go ahead and add that.
So I'm going to open up my constants file right here.
And this is kind of an interesting one because it's kind of global and applies to multiple categories.
It kind of relates to organizations to job types and degrees.
I think a reasonable place to put it for now is going to be right here since it relates to the content
of all jobs are filtering all jobs, maybe there's a better place to put it, maybe a separate category
as far as comments.
But for now, I think this is okay.
So right here I'm going to say export constant.
And of course our mutation method is called the clear user job filter selections and that's going to
be a string equal to the exact same thing.
Clear user job filter selections.
There we go.
That allows me to open up my mutation file, and we're importing all of our constants up here.
So I'm going to import that new constant right here.
And immediately down below, I'm going to define a method with that name.
So I'm going to provide square brackets to reference the constants value as the name.
And right here, of course, I'm going to provide my first parameter for every mutation method.
It's always going to be the current bookstore state.
That parameter I call State and I'll tell TypeScript that it is going to be of type of global state,
same as always, and then provide my method body.
So if I save this just to allow my test to rerun and follow true test driven development, we should
now see the correct failure, which is not no longer that the method doesn't exist, but rather that
my arrays are not correct.
So my output is telling me just the still seeing an array of random organization when we told it to
expect an empty array.
That's exactly what we expect.
So right here, it's going to be exactly as you expect.
We're going to access those three properties and set them back to the empty arrays.
So state is our view store state.
It has a selected organization's property.
We're going to set that to be an empty array.
We're going to do the exact same thing with selected job types.
No matter how many values are in that array, we're simply going to overwrite it with a new array.
And right here, state that's selected degrees as well.
Set that back to an empty array.
All right.
So when this mutation runs, we're going to basically clear out all of the user selections as far as
them being stored in the view store, which of course affects all of the getters that do the filter,
jobs, etc., all that logic.
That's why it's so important to take care of the view side of things as well.
And then we'll get to the component a little bit later.
All right.
So with that, everything is clearing out.
We have a mutation that gets us back to the state we want.
Assuming the user clicks on the clear filters button.
Right.
So everything is looking good.
And I will see you in the next lesson.